docs/wd14_tagger_README-en.md, before:

# Image Tagging using WD14Tagger

This document is based on the information from this github page (https://github.com/toriato/stable-diffusion-webui-wd14-tagger#mrsmilingwolfs-model-aka-waifu-diffusion-14-tagger).

Using onnx for inference is recommended. Please install onnx with the following command:

```powershell
pip install onnx==1.15.0 onnxruntime-gpu==1.17.1  
```

The model weights will be automatically downloaded from Hugging Face.

# Usage

Run the script to perform tagging.

```powershell
python finetune/tag_images_by_wd14_tagger.py --onnx --repo_id <model repo id> --batch_size <batch size> <training data folder>
```

For example, if using the repository `SmilingWolf/wd-swinv2-tagger-v3` with a batch size of 4, and the training data is located in the parent folder `train_data`, it would be:

```powershell
python tag_images_by_wd14_tagger.py --onnx --repo_id SmilingWolf/wd-swinv2-tagger-v3 --batch_size 4 ..\train_data
```

On the first run, the model files will be automatically downloaded to the `wd14_tagger_model` folder (the folder can be changed with an option). 

Tag files will be created in the same directory as the training data images, with the same filename and a `.txt` extension.

![Generated tag files](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52813779/208910534-ea514373-1185-4b7d-9ae3-61eb50bc294e.png)

![Tags and image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52813779/208910599-29070c15-7639-474f-b3e4-06bd5a3df29e.png)

## Example

To output in the Animagine XL 3.1 format, it would be as follows (enter on a single line in practice):

```
python tag_images_by_wd14_tagger.py --onnx --repo_id SmilingWolf/wd-swinv2-tagger-v3 
    --batch_size 4  --remove_underscore --undesired_tags "PUT,YOUR,UNDESIRED,TAGS" --recursive 
    --use_rating_tags_as_last_tag --character_tags_first --character_tag_expand 
    --always_first_tags "1girl,1boy"  ..\train_data
```

## Available Repository IDs

[SmilingWolf's V2 and V3 models](https://huggingface.co/SmilingWolf) are available for use. Specify them in the format like `SmilingWolf/wd-vit-tagger-v3`. The default when omitted is `SmilingWolf/wd-v1-4-convnext-tagger-v2`.

# Options 

## General Options

- `--onnx`: Use ONNX for inference. If not specified, TensorFlow will be used. If using TensorFlow, please install TensorFlow separately. 
- `--batch_size`: Number of images to process at once. Default is 1. Adjust according to VRAM capacity.
- `--caption_extension`: File extension for caption files. Default is `.txt`.
- `--max_data_loader_n_workers`: Maximum number of workers for DataLoader. Specifying a value of 1 or more will use DataLoader to speed up image loading. If unspecified, DataLoader will not be used.
- `--thresh`: Confidence threshold for outputting tags. Default is 0.35. Lowering the value will assign more tags but accuracy will decrease. 
- `--general_threshold`: Confidence threshold for general tags. If omitted, same as `--thresh`.
- `--character_threshold`: Confidence threshold for character tags. If omitted, same as `--thresh`.
- `--recursive`: If specified, subfolders within the specified folder will also be processed recursively.
- `--append_tags`: Append tags to existing tag files.
- `--frequency_tags`: Output tag frequencies.  
- `--debug`: Debug mode. Outputs debug information if specified.

## Model Download

- `--model_dir`: Folder to save model files. Default is `wd14_tagger_model`.  
- `--force_download`: Re-download model files if specified.

## Tag Editing

- `--remove_underscore`: Remove underscores from output tags.
- `--undesired_tags`: Specify tags not to output. Multiple tags can be specified, separated by commas. For example, `black eyes,black hair`.
- `--use_rating_tags`: Output rating tags at the beginning of the tags.
- `--use_rating_tags_as_last_tag`: Add rating tags at the end of the tags.
- `--character_tags_first`: Output character tags first.
- `--character_tag_expand`: Expand character tag series names. For example, split the tag `chara_name_(series)` into `chara_name, series`.  
- `--always_first_tags`: Specify tags to always output first when a certain tag appears in an image. Multiple tags can be specified, separated by commas. For example, `1girl,1boy`.
- `--caption_separator`: Separate tags with this string in the output file. Default is `, `.
- `--tag_replacement`: Perform tag replacement. Specify in the format `tag1,tag2;tag3,tag4`. If using `,` and `;`, escape them with `\`. \
    For example, specify `aira tsubase,aira tsubase (uniform)` (when you want to train a specific costume), `aira tsubase,aira tsubase\, heir of shadows` (when the series name is not included in the tag).

When using `tag_replacement`, it is applied after `character_tag_expand`.

When specifying `remove_underscore`, specify `undesired_tags`, `always_first_tags`, and `tag_replacement` without including underscores.

When specifying `caption_separator`, separate `undesired_tags` and `always_first_tags` with `caption_separator`. Always separate `tag_replacement` with `,`.

Commit message:

feat: support another tagger model

docs/wd14_tagger_README-en.md, after:

# Image Tagging using WD14Tagger

This document is based on the information from this github page (https://github.com/toriato/stable-diffusion-webui-wd14-tagger#mrsmilingwolfs-model-aka-waifu-diffusion-14-tagger).

Using onnx for inference is recommended. Please install onnx with the following command:

```powershell
pip install onnx onnxruntime-gpu
```

See [the official documentation](https://onnxruntime.ai/docs/install/#python-installs) for more details.

The model weights will be automatically downloaded from Hugging Face.

# Usage

Run the script to perform tagging.

```powershell
python finetune/tag_images_by_wd14_tagger.py --onnx --repo_id <model repo id> --batch_size <batch size> <training data folder>
```

For example, if using the repository `SmilingWolf/wd-swinv2-tagger-v3` with a batch size of 4, and the training data is located in the parent folder `train_data`, it would be:

```powershell
python tag_images_by_wd14_tagger.py --onnx --repo_id SmilingWolf/wd-swinv2-tagger-v3 --batch_size 4 ..\train_data
```

On the first run, the model files will be automatically downloaded to the `wd14_tagger_model` folder (the folder can be changed with an option). 

Tag files will be created in the same directory as the training data images, with the same filename and a `.txt` extension.

![Generated tag files](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52813779/208910534-ea514373-1185-4b7d-9ae3-61eb50bc294e.png)

![Tags and image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52813779/208910599-29070c15-7639-474f-b3e4-06bd5a3df29e.png)

## Example

To output in the Animagine XL 3.1 format, it would be as follows (enter on a single line in practice):

```
python tag_images_by_wd14_tagger.py --onnx --repo_id SmilingWolf/wd-swinv2-tagger-v3 
    --batch_size 4  --remove_underscore --undesired_tags "PUT,YOUR,UNDESIRED,TAGS" --recursive 
    --use_rating_tags_as_last_tag --character_tags_first --character_tag_expand 
    --always_first_tags "1girl,1boy"  ..\train_data
```

## Available Repository IDs

[SmilingWolf's V2 and V3 models](https://huggingface.co/SmilingWolf) are available for use. Specify them in the format like `SmilingWolf/wd-vit-tagger-v3`. The default when omitted is `SmilingWolf/wd-v1-4-convnext-tagger-v2`.

# Options 

All options can be checked with `python tag_images_by_wd14_tagger.py --help`.

## General Options

- `--onnx`: Use ONNX for inference. If not specified, TensorFlow will be used. If using TensorFlow, please install TensorFlow separately. 
- `--batch_size`: Number of images to process at once. Default is 1. Adjust according to VRAM capacity.
- `--caption_extension`: File extension for caption files. Default is `.txt`.
- `--max_data_loader_n_workers`: Maximum number of workers for DataLoader. Specifying a value of 1 or more will use DataLoader to speed up image loading. If unspecified, DataLoader will not be used.
- `--thresh`: Confidence threshold for outputting tags. Default is 0.35. Lowering the value will assign more tags but accuracy will decrease. 
- `--general_threshold`: Confidence threshold for general tags. If omitted, same as `--thresh`.
- `--character_threshold`: Confidence threshold for character tags. If omitted, same as `--thresh`.
- `--recursive`: If specified, subfolders within the specified folder will also be processed recursively.
- `--append_tags`: Append tags to existing tag files.
- `--frequency_tags`: Output tag frequencies.  
- `--debug`: Debug mode. Outputs debug information if specified.

## Model Download

- `--model_dir`: Folder to save model files. Default is `wd14_tagger_model`.  
- `--force_download`: Re-download model files if specified.

## Tag Editing

- `--remove_underscore`: Remove underscores from output tags.
- `--undesired_tags`: Specify tags not to output. Multiple tags can be specified, separated by commas. For example, `black eyes,black hair`.
- `--use_rating_tags`: Output rating tags at the beginning of the tags.
- `--use_rating_tags_as_last_tag`: Add rating tags at the end of the tags.
- `--character_tags_first`: Output character tags first.
- `--character_tag_expand`: Expand character tag series names. For example, split the tag `chara_name_(series)` into `chara_name, series`.  
- `--always_first_tags`: Specify tags to always output first when a certain tag appears in an image. Multiple tags can be specified, separated by commas. For example, `1girl,1boy`.
- `--caption_separator`: Separate tags with this string in the output file. Default is `, `.
- `--tag_replacement`: Perform tag replacement. Specify in the format `tag1,tag2;tag3,tag4`. If using `,` and `;`, escape them with `\`. \
    For example, specify `aira tsubase,aira tsubase (uniform)` (when you want to train a specific costume), `aira tsubase,aira tsubase\, heir of shadows` (when the series name is not included in the tag).

When using `tag_replacement`, it is applied after `character_tag_expand`.

When specifying `remove_underscore`, specify `undesired_tags`, `always_first_tags`, and `tag_replacement` without including underscores.

When specifying `caption_separator`, separate `undesired_tags` and `always_first_tags` with `caption_separator`. Always separate `tag_replacement` with `,`.
